docs/source/getting-started/quickstart_vllm_ascend.md, before:

# Quickstart-vLLM-Ascend
This document describes how to install unified-cache-management with vllm-ascend on ascend platform.

## Prerequisites
vllm-ascend: >=v0.9.1 (vllm == 0.9.2 to use the Sparse Feature)

**Please refer to the [vLLM-Ascend Installation](https://vllm-ascend.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#requirements) guide to meet the required dependencies, and prepare the corresponding version of the vllm-ascend environment as needed.**

## Step 1: UCM Installation

We offer 3 options to install UCM.

### Option 1: Build from source

Follow commands below to install unified-cache-management from source code:
**Note:** The sparse module was not compiled by default. To enable it, set the environment variable `export ENABLE_SPARSE=TRUE` before you build.
```bash
# Replace <branch_or_tag_name> with the branch or tag name needed
git clone --depth 1 --branch <branch_or_tag_name> https://github.com/ModelEngine-Group/unified-cache-management.git
cd unified-cache-management
export PLATFORM=ascend
pip install -v -e . --no-build-isolation
cd ..
```


### Option 2: Install by pip
Install by pip or find the pre-build wheels on [Pypi](https://pypi.org/project/uc-manager/).
```
export PLATFORM=ascend
pip install uc-manager
```
> **Note:** If installing via `pip install`, you need to manually add the `config.yaml` file, similar to `unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml`, because PyPI packages do not include YAML files.

### Option 3: Setup from docker
Download the pre-built `vllm-ascend` docker image and build unified-cache-management docker image by commands below:
 ```bash
 # Build docker image using source code, replace <branch_or_tag_name> with the branch or tag name needed
 git clone --depth 1 --branch <branch_or_tag_name> https://github.com/ModelEngine-Group/unified-cache-management.git
 cd unified-cache-management
 docker build -t ucm-vllm:latest -f ./docker/Dockerfile-NPU ./
 ```
vllm-ascend provides two variants: **Ubuntu** and **openEuler**.  
The `Dockerfile-NPU` uses the **openEuler** variant by default.

If you want to use the **Ubuntu** variant, please remove the `-openeuler` suffix and use the following image instead:

```text
quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.9.2rc1
```
Then run your container using following command. You can add or remove Docker parameters as needed.
```bash
# Update DEVICE according to your device (/dev/davinci[0-7])
export DEVICE=/dev/davinci7
# Update the vllm-ascend image
docker run --rm \
    --network=host \
    --device $DEVICE \
    --device /dev/davinci_manager \
    --device /dev/devmm_svm \
    --device /dev/hisi_hdc \
    -v /usr/local/dcmi:/usr/local/dcmi \
    -v /usr/local/bin/npu-smi:/usr/local/bin/npu-smi \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/ \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info \
    -v /etc/ascend_install.info:/etc/ascend_install.info \
    -v /root/.cache:/root/.cache \
    -v <path_to_your_models>:/app/model \
    -v <path_to_your_storage>:/app/storage \
    --name <name_of_your_container> \
    -it <image_id> bash
```
## Step 2: Configuration

### Features Overview

UCM supports two key features: **Prefix Cache** and **Sparse attention**. Each feature supports both **Offline Inference** and **Online API** modes. More details are available via the links
- [Prefix Cache](../user-guide/prefix-cache/index.md)
- [GSA Sparsity](../user-guide/sparse-attention/gsa.md)

For quick start, just follow the guide below to launch your own inference experience;

### Feature 1:  Prefix Caching

You may directly edit the example file at `unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml`. For more please refer to [Prefix Cache with NFS Store](../user-guide/prefix-cache/nfs_store.md) document.

⚠️ Make sure to replace `/mnt/test` with your actual storage directory. 

### Feature 2:  Sparsity

The sparse module was not compiled by default. To enable it, set the environment variable `export ENABLE_SPARSE=TRUE` and re-compile the code you built. And uncomment `ucm_sparse_config` code block in `unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml`.

## Step 3: Launching Inference

<details open>
<summary><b>Offline Inference</b></summary>

In the `examples/` directory, you will find the `offline_inference.py` script used for offline inference. Before executing the script, locate line 25 and replace the `UCM_CONFIG_FILE` value with the path to your own configuration file.
```bash
def build_llm_with_uc(module_path: str, name: str, model: str):
    ktc = KVTransferConfig(
        kv_connector=name,
        kv_connector_module_path=module_path,
        kv_role="kv_both",
        kv_connector_extra_config={
            "UCM_CONFIG_FILE": "/workspace/unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml"
        },
    )
```
Then run following commands:

```bash
cd examples/
# Change the model path to your own model path
python offline_inference.py
```

</details>



<details open>
<summary><b>OpenAI-Compatible Online API</b></summary>

For online inference, vLLM with our connector can also be deployed as a server that implements the OpenAI API protocol.

To start the vLLM server with the Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct model, run:

```bash
vllm serve Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct \
--max-model-len 20000 \
--tensor-parallel-size 2 \
--gpu_memory_utilization 0.87 \
--block_size 128 \
--trust-remote-code \
--port 7800 \
--enforce-eager \
--no-enable-prefix-caching \
--kv-transfer-config \
'{
    "kv_connector": "UCMConnector",
    "kv_connector_module_path": "ucm.integration.vllm.ucm_connector",
    "kv_role": "kv_both",
    "kv_connector_extra_config": {"UCM_CONFIG_FILE": "/workspace/unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml"}
}'
```
**⚠️ The parameter `--no-enable-prefix-caching` is for SSD performance testing, please remove it for production.**

**⚠️ Make sure to replace `"/workspace/unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml"` with your actual config file path.**


If you see log as below:

```bash
INFO:     Started server process [32890]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:     Application startup complete.
```

Congratulations, you have successfully started the vLLM server with UCM!

After successfully started the vLLM server，You can interact with the API as following:

```bash
curl http://localhost:7800/v1/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct",
    "prompt": "You are a highly specialized assistant whose mission is to faithfully reproduce English literary texts verbatim, without any deviation, paraphrasing, or omission. Your primary responsibility is accuracy: every word, every punctuation mark, and every line must appear exactly as in the original source. Core Principles: Verbatim Reproduction: If the user asks for a passage, you must output the text word-for-word. Do not alter spelling, punctuation, capitalization, or line breaks. Do not paraphrase, summarize, modernize, or \"improve\" the language. Consistency: The same input must always yield the same output. Do not generate alternative versions or interpretations. Clarity of Scope: Your role is not to explain, interpret, or critique. You are not a storyteller or commentator, but a faithful copyist of English literary and cultural texts. Recognizability: Because texts must be reproduced exactly, they will carry their own cultural recognition. You should not add labels, introductions, or explanations before or after the text. Coverage: You must handle passages from classic literature, poetry, speeches, or cultural texts. Regardless of tone—solemn, visionary, poetic, persuasive—you must preserve the original form, structure, and rhythm by reproducing it precisely. Success Criteria: A human reader should be able to compare your output directly with the original and find zero differences. The measure of success is absolute textual fidelity. Your function can be summarized as follows: verbatim reproduction only, no paraphrase, no commentary, no embellishment, no omission. Please reproduce verbatim the opening sentence of the United States Declaration of Independence (1776), starting with \"When in the Course of human events\" and continuing word-for-word without paraphrasing.",
    "max_tokens": 100,
    "temperature": 0
  }'

```
</details>

Commit message:

[feat] Cherry-pick updates from 0.2.0-release to develop (patches and docs) (#623)
<!--  Thanks for sending a pull request!

BEFORE SUBMITTING, PLEASE READ OUR OFFICIAL WEBSITE.

-->

# Purpose

What this PR does / why we need it?
All patches have been updated. 
Now, the integration can be completed by applying a single patch: `git
apply vllm-adapt.patch`
At the same time, the workflow still supports independent development
and maintenance using separate patches, such as:
vllm-adapt-sparse.patch or vllm-rerope-adapt.patch

<!--
- Please clarify what changes you are proposing. The purpose of this
section is to outline the changes and how this PR fixes the issue.
If possible, please consider writing useful notes for better and faster
reviews in your PR.

- Please clarify why the changes are needed. For instance, the use case
and bug description.

- Fixes #
-->

# Modifications 

Does this PR introduce _any_ user-facing change?
- Remove redundant patches: vllm-adapt-aggre.patch and
vllm-adapt-pc.patch
- Update vllm-adapt.patch vllm-adapt-sparse.patch and
vllm-rerope-adapt.patch
<!--
Note that it means *any* user-facing change including all aspects such
as API, interface or other behavior changes.
Documentation-only updates are not considered user-facing changes.
-->

# Test

How was this patch tested?
<!--
CI passed with new added/existing test.
If it was tested in a way different from regular unit tests, please
clarify how you tested step by step, ideally copy and paste-able, so
that other reviewers can test and check, and descendants can verify in
the future.
If tests were not added, please describe why they were not added and/or
why it was difficult to add.
-->

---------

Co-authored-by: wangxin <1848802892@qq.com>

docs/source/getting-started/quickstart_vllm_ascend.md, after:

# Quickstart-vLLM-Ascend
This document describes how to install unified-cache-management with vllm-ascend on ascend platform.

## Prerequisites
vllm-ascend: >=v0.9.1 (vllm == 0.9.2 to use the Sparse Feature)

**Please refer to the [vLLM-Ascend Installation](https://vllm-ascend.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#requirements) guide to meet the required dependencies, and prepare the corresponding version of the vllm-ascend environment as needed.**

## Step 1: UCM Installation

We offer 3 options to install UCM.

### Option 1: Build from source

1、Follow commands below to install unified-cache-management from source code:
**Note:** The sparse module was not compiled by default. To enable it, set the environment variable `export ENABLE_SPARSE=TRUE` before you build.
```bash
# Replace <branch_or_tag_name> with the branch or tag name needed
git clone --depth 1 --branch <branch_or_tag_name> https://github.com/ModelEngine-Group/unified-cache-management.git
cd unified-cache-management
export PLATFORM=ascend
pip install -v -e . --no-build-isolation
cd ..
```

2、Apply vLLM and vLLM-Ascend Integration Patches (Required)
To enable Unified Cache Management (UCM) integration, you need to apply patches to both vLLM and vLLM-Ascend source trees.

**Step 1:** Apply the vLLM Patch

First, apply the standard vLLM integration patch in the vLLM source directory:
    
```bash
cd <path_to_vllm>
git apply unified-cache-management/ucm/integration/vllm/patch/0.9.2/vllm-adapt.patch
```
    
**Step 2:** Apply the vLLM-Ascend Patch

Then, switch to the vLLM-Ascend source directory and apply the Ascend-specific patch:

```bash
cd <path_to_vllm_ascend>
git apply unified-cache-management/ucm/integration/vllm/patch/0.9.2/vllm-ascend-adapt.patch
```

**Note:**
    The ReRoPE algorithm is not supported on Ascend at the moment.
    Only the standard UCM integration is applicable for vLLM-Ascend.


### Option 2: Install by pip
Install by pip or find the pre-build wheels on [Pypi](https://pypi.org/project/uc-manager/).
```
export PLATFORM=ascend
pip install uc-manager
```
> **Note:** If installing via `pip install`, you need to manually add the `config.yaml` file, similar to `unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml`, because PyPI packages do not include YAML files.

### Option 3: Setup from docker
Download the pre-built `vllm-ascend` docker image and build unified-cache-management docker image by commands below:
 ```bash
 # Build docker image using source code, replace <branch_or_tag_name> with the branch or tag name needed
 git clone --depth 1 --branch <branch_or_tag_name> https://github.com/ModelEngine-Group/unified-cache-management.git
 cd unified-cache-management
 docker build -t ucm-vllm:latest -f ./docker/Dockerfile-NPU ./
 ```
vllm-ascend provides two variants: **Ubuntu** and **openEuler**.  
The `Dockerfile-NPU` uses the **openEuler** variant by default.

If you want to use the **Ubuntu** variant, please remove the `-openeuler` suffix and use the following image instead:

```text
quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.9.2rc1
```
Then run your container using following command. You can add or remove Docker parameters as needed.
```bash
# Update DEVICE according to your device (/dev/davinci[0-7])
export DEVICE=/dev/davinci7
# Update the vllm-ascend image
docker run --rm \
    --network=host \
    --device $DEVICE \
    --device /dev/davinci_manager \
    --device /dev/devmm_svm \
    --device /dev/hisi_hdc \
    -v /usr/local/dcmi:/usr/local/dcmi \
    -v /usr/local/bin/npu-smi:/usr/local/bin/npu-smi \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/ \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info \
    -v /etc/ascend_install.info:/etc/ascend_install.info \
    -v /root/.cache:/root/.cache \
    -v <path_to_your_models>:/app/model \
    -v <path_to_your_storage>:/app/storage \
    --name <name_of_your_container> \
    -it <image_id> bash
```
## Step 2: Configuration

### Features Overview

UCM supports two key features: **Prefix Cache** and **Sparse attention**. Each feature supports both **Offline Inference** and **Online API** modes. More details are available via the links
- [Prefix Cache](../user-guide/prefix-cache/index.md)
- [GSA Sparsity](../user-guide/sparse-attention/gsa.md)

For quick start, just follow the guide below to launch your own inference experience;

### Feature 1:  Prefix Caching

You may directly edit the example file at `unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml`. For more please refer to [Prefix Cache with NFS Store](../user-guide/prefix-cache/nfs_store.md) document.

⚠️ Make sure to replace `/mnt/test` with your actual storage directory. 

### Feature 2:  Sparsity

The sparse module was not compiled by default. To enable it, set the environment variable `export ENABLE_SPARSE=TRUE` and re-compile the code you built. And uncomment `ucm_sparse_config` code block in `unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml`.

## Step 3: Launching Inference

<details open>
<summary><b>Offline Inference</b></summary>

In the `examples/` directory, you will find the `offline_inference.py` script used for offline inference. Before executing the script, locate line 25 and replace the `UCM_CONFIG_FILE` value with the path to your own configuration file.
```bash
def build_llm_with_uc(module_path: str, name: str, model: str):
    ktc = KVTransferConfig(
        kv_connector=name,
        kv_connector_module_path=module_path,
        kv_role="kv_both",
        kv_connector_extra_config={
            "UCM_CONFIG_FILE": "/workspace/unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml"
        },
    )
```
Then run following commands:

```bash
cd examples/
# Change the model path to your own model path
python offline_inference.py
```

</details>



<details open>
<summary><b>OpenAI-Compatible Online API</b></summary>

For online inference, vLLM with our connector can also be deployed as a server that implements the OpenAI API protocol.

To start the vLLM server with the Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct model, run:

```bash
vllm serve Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct \
--max-model-len 20000 \
--tensor-parallel-size 2 \
--gpu_memory_utilization 0.87 \
--block_size 128 \
--trust-remote-code \
--port 7800 \
--enforce-eager \
--no-enable-prefix-caching \
--kv-transfer-config \
'{
    "kv_connector": "UCMConnector",
    "kv_connector_module_path": "ucm.integration.vllm.ucm_connector",
    "kv_role": "kv_both",
    "kv_connector_extra_config": {"UCM_CONFIG_FILE": "/workspace/unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml"}
}'
```
**⚠️ The parameter `--no-enable-prefix-caching` is for SSD performance testing, please remove it for production.**

**⚠️ Make sure to replace `"/workspace/unified-cache-management/examples/ucm_config_example.yaml"` with your actual config file path.**


If you see log as below:

```bash
INFO:     Started server process [32890]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:     Application startup complete.
```

Congratulations, you have successfully started the vLLM server with UCM!

After successfully started the vLLM server，You can interact with the API as following:

```bash
curl http://localhost:7800/v1/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct",
    "prompt": "You are a highly specialized assistant whose mission is to faithfully reproduce English literary texts verbatim, without any deviation, paraphrasing, or omission. Your primary responsibility is accuracy: every word, every punctuation mark, and every line must appear exactly as in the original source. Core Principles: Verbatim Reproduction: If the user asks for a passage, you must output the text word-for-word. Do not alter spelling, punctuation, capitalization, or line breaks. Do not paraphrase, summarize, modernize, or \"improve\" the language. Consistency: The same input must always yield the same output. Do not generate alternative versions or interpretations. Clarity of Scope: Your role is not to explain, interpret, or critique. You are not a storyteller or commentator, but a faithful copyist of English literary and cultural texts. Recognizability: Because texts must be reproduced exactly, they will carry their own cultural recognition. You should not add labels, introductions, or explanations before or after the text. Coverage: You must handle passages from classic literature, poetry, speeches, or cultural texts. Regardless of tone—solemn, visionary, poetic, persuasive—you must preserve the original form, structure, and rhythm by reproducing it precisely. Success Criteria: A human reader should be able to compare your output directly with the original and find zero differences. The measure of success is absolute textual fidelity. Your function can be summarized as follows: verbatim reproduction only, no paraphrase, no commentary, no embellishment, no omission. Please reproduce verbatim the opening sentence of the United States Declaration of Independence (1776), starting with \"When in the Course of human events\" and continuing word-for-word without paraphrasing.",
    "max_tokens": 100,
    "temperature": 0
  }'

```
</details>
